Date:8/8/2022

Exception:an abnormal condition which interrupts normal flow of program execution

types of exception:
1.error:Irrecoverable ex.StackOverflow,memoryLeackage

2.checked Exception:recoverable,compiled time exception
it is compulsory to handle otherwise u will get compile time error
e.g.FileNotFoundException,IOException,SQLException

3.unchecked exceptions:recoverable ,runtime Exception
e.g.ArithmaticException,NullPointerException

throwable is the base class of exception
and Object is the base class of java

try,catch,throw,throws,finally
U can use multiple catch block,but at a time one exception will occur and at a time only one will execute and
In Multiple catch block order must be from most specific to most general 
i.e.catch for arithmaticException before the catch for Exception

-try must followed by catch or finally block
1.
try{
}
catch(Exception e){
}

2.try--catch--finally
3.try--finally

finally block:
-Finally block is used to execute imp code such as closing file,closing database connections
- it is always executed whether you handled exception or not
-for Each try block there can be 0 or more catch block but only one finally block
i.e. we can insert multiple finally block

when finally block will not execute?:
->1.when error(memoryLeackage,StackOverflow) occurs 2.when we exit the program by system.exit(0)3.power failure

hw:
Read the question carefully and follow the input and output format.

Write a function to find the product of the first and the third largest numbers in the given input integer array.

Input and Output Format :
First line of input corresponds to n, the size of array and next n lines correspond to the elements of the array

Print "Invalid array size" when size of the array is a negative number and terminate the program
Print "Invalid number" when there is any negative numbers available in the input array and terminate the program.

Include a function named findFirstLargest(int n, int array[]) that returns an integer, product of first and third largest numbers.

Sample Input 1:
5
11
241
83
8
2

Sample Output 1:
2651

Sample Input 2:
3
83
-8
Sample Output 2:
Invalid number


date:9/8/2022
throw:
-throw will used to explicitly throw an exception
-it is mainly used to throw custom exception
-we can throw either checked or unchecked exception

syntax:throw new ArithmaticException("");

throws:
-it is used to declare checked exception
-it gives an information to the programmer that there may occur an exception so it is better for programmer to provide the exception handling code,
so that normal flow can be maintain.


Custom Exception:
-if you are creating your own exception that is known as custom exception or user defined exception.
-by the help of custom exception,you can have your own exception and message
-it is used to customize the exception according to user need 

example to solve:
1.
Read the question carefully and follow the input and output format.

In a game show everybody got one coupon with some code. They need to generate a code with only even numbers in that coupon.
 Find the answer.

Input and Output Format :
Input consists of  an integer. Output consist of an integer, which is the generated code.

1) Print "Number too small" when the given input number is a negative number.
2) Print "Number too large" when the given input number is greater than 32767.
3) Print 0 If the coupon does not contain any even numbers.

Include a function named generateCode(int coupon) whose return type is an integer, which is the generated code.

Sample Input 1:
4352

Sample Output 1:
42

Sample Input 2:
1357

Sample Output 2:
0

Sample Input 3:
-1357

Sample Output 3:
Number too small

2.
Read the question carefully and follow the input and output format.

Given the cubic capacity(CC) of a bike. Write a function to return the mileage/liter for the given Cubic Capacity(CC). The mileage will be calculated as follows:

if CC is between 100 and 125, mileage is 75
if CC is between 126 and 135, mileage is 70
if CC is between 136 and 150, mileage is 60
if CC is between 151 and 200, mileage is 50
if CC is between 201 and 220, mileage is 35

First line of input consists of an integer that corresponds to CC of a bike. Output consist of an integer, which is the mileage.

Print "Number too large" when the given input CC is greater than 220.
Print "Number too small" when the given input CC is less than 100.

Include a function named findMileage(int cc) whose return type is an integer, which is the mileage.

Sample Input 1:
1

Sample Output 1:
Number too small

Sample Input 2:
160

Sample Output 2:
50
