what is oops?and explain principles of oops.4 major pillers of oops
why java is platform independent?
why pointer is not included in java?
what are primitive data types?
what is variable?
what are the types of variable?
why main method is static in java?
can we write static public void main instead of public static void main?
can we change return type of main method? like int/double?
can we change variable of command line argument?

what is system.out.println()?
ans:System-Class present in java.lang.*
out:static reference of printStream class
println():method of printStream class

can we write top-level class as private or protected?
ans-->No, we cannot declare a top-level class as private or protected. 
It can be either public or default ( no modifier ). 
If it does not have a modifier, it is supposed to have a default access.
 If a top-level class is declared as private the compiler will complain that the modifier private is not allowed here.



which is better scanner or bufferReader?and Why?
can we make a class as private or protected?-no,class may be public or default.


Question TO Ask:
why are we passing string array argument? can we pass any other argument?
If String array is mandatory then what is reason behind it, why we can pass any other data type instead of String array?
i.e. what is benefit of String array argument for main method?










what is class ?->blueprint or template to create obj
what is object?->it is physical entity it has state(variables) and behavoiur(methods)
what are the advantages of methods?
ans.It makes the program well structured.
Methods enhance the readability of the code.
It provides an effective way for the user to reuse the existing code.
It optimizes the execution time and memory space.

what is constructor?
ans.A constructor in Java is a special method that is used to initialize objects. The constructor is called when an object of a class is created.
it has same name as class name and dont have any return type.

what is difference between method and constructor?
ans.Constructor is called implicitly by system.A method is called by the programmer.
constructor has no return type. It can or cannot return any value to the caller.method has return type
constructor has same name as class name,but method name is user defined or inbuilt(library methods).
constructor can't be overloaded but method overriding is possible

what is method overloading?
ans.-->Method with same name but different types of parameters and different no of parameters
what is method overriding?
ans .occurs when a subclass (child class) has the same method as the parent class.

what is difference between overloading and method overriding?
ans.-->1.Method overloading is performed within class.	Method overriding occurs in two classes that have IS-A (inheritance) relationship.
       2.In java, method overloading can't be performed by changing return type of the method only.
         Return type can be same or different in method overloading. But you must have to change the parameter.
         Return type must be same or covariant in method overriding.
 	   3.In case of method overloading, parameter must be different.In case of method overriding, parameter must be same.
 	   4.Method overloading is the example of compile time polymorphism.Method overriding is the example of run time polymorphism.
 	   5.Method overloading is used to increase the readability of the program.	
 	   Method overriding is used to provide the specific implementation of the method that is already provided by its super class.
 
what is this keyword?
ans.-->The main purpose of using this keyword in Java is to remove the confusion between class attributes and parameters that have same names. 
this keyword in Java is a reference variable that refers to the current object of a method or a constructor or instance variable

what is this constructor?
ans.-->The this() constructor call can be used to invoke the current class constructor. It is used to reuse the constructor.
 In other words, it is used for constructor chaining.
 
what is super keyword and super constructor?
ans.-->The super keyword in Java is a reference variable which is used to refer immediate parent class object. 
 super() is parent class default constructor.super() can be used to invoke immediate parent class constructor.
super() must be at first line of child class constructor.

what is difference between this and super keyword?
what is difference between this constructor and super constructor?
what is difference between super constructor and super keyword?
what is diff between has a and is a relationship?
what is inheritance?and explain its types.
why java does not support multiple inheritance?
what is final keyword?
what is static keyword?
can we use this and super keyword in static context?
can we execute a program without main()?yes if u are using below 7 version from 7th version it is not possible using static blocks
 



date:5/8/2022
what is package and sub package?
which is default package of java------ans.java.lang
can we import same package twice?-----ans.yes
though string is class why we dont import package?----ans.because it is in default package of java
can i write package stmt after import stmt?------ans.No
what is difference between protected and default?
what is difference between string and string buffer
what is difference between stringBuffer and stringBuilder
how to create a string?
what is abstract class ?
what is interface?
what is difference between abstract class and interface?
what is exception?
what is the need of handling the exception?
what is the base class of exception?
what are the types of exception?
what is the use of finally block?
what is final,finally and finalize?->finalize is a method used to perform cleanup processing such as clossing a file ,closing data base connections before garbage is collected
why we can not create object of abstract class?
ans.If we will create an object of the abstract class and calls the method having no body(as the method is pure virtual) it will give an error.
 That is why we can't create object of abstract class.i.e.You cannot create an instance of an abstract class because it does not have a complete implementation. 

date:9/8/2022
can we insert multiple catch block?->yes
what is order of multiple catch block?->most specific to general
which exception should be declared?
ans.If a method does not handle a checked exception, the method must declare it using the throws keyword.


difference between throw and throws?
ans.throw is used to throw an exception explicitly.
throws is used to declare an Exception.
throw is followed by an instance and throws is followed by a className
throw is used in the method and throws is used with the method signature
using throw u can throw only one exception and using throws u can declare multiple declaration by comma separation

what is custom exception?
how to create custom exception?
can we rethrow an exception?->yes
try{
}catch(Exception e){
throw new Exception;
}

date:10/8/2022
which is the base class of java or super class?
what is the return type of hashCode method?
what are the wrapper classes?
what is autoboxing and unboxing?








